Hugor - A portable Hugo engine
Written and maintained by Nikos Chantziaras <realnc@gmail.com>

"Hugor" stands for "Hugo Runner."  It plays adventure games created with
Kent Tessmanâ€™s Hugo authoring system:

  http://ifwiki.org/index.php/Hugo

All multimedia features of Hugo are supported: video, graphics, audio
samples and music.

Hugor runs on all current major operating systems (Linux, MacOS and
Microsoft Windows).  You can find binaries at:

  https://github.com/realnc/hugor/releases/latest

The source code is hosted at:

  https://github.com/realnc/hugor

If you have questions, you can use the intfiction.org forum:

  https://www.intfiction.org

or the Jolt Country forum:

  https://www.joltcountry.com/phpBB3


Compiling from source
=====================

(NOTE: These instructions are for Unix systems (Linux, macOS, *BSD, etc.)
On Windows, you're on your own. The official Windows binary for Hugor is
built in Linux, using an MXE [https://mxe.cc] toolchain.)

If you wish to build from source, you will need the development packages
for the Qt library. At least Qt 5.5 is required. 5.6 or newer is *highly*
recommended, preferably 5.9 or newer.

For audio support, you will need development files for:

  SDL 2
  libmpg123
  libopenmpt or libxmp or libmodplug
  libsndfile
  libfluidsynth (version 2.x; 1.x will not work)
  libADLMIDI (optional; it plays MIDI through OPL3 emulation)

Video is supported through LibVLC. It is usually installed as part of the
VLC media player on Linux. It should be detected though pkg-config. The
LibVLC ffmpeg/libav plugin needs to be installed (which is the case by
default on pretty much every Linux distro.)  When building on macOS or
Windows, I wish you good luck... You need to make sure the LibVLC
libraries and headers are available through pkg-config.

If all dependencies are available, you can build and install Hugor with
the following commands:

  qmake
  make -jN

Substitute the 'N' in '-jN' with the amount of CPUs or cores in your
system in order to utilize all of them for a faster compilation process.

This will build Hugor with audio and video support, with libopenmpt as the
MOD music backend.

On macOS, this will create an application bundle (Hugor.app) that you can
run. You can also move it into /Applications. You might want to run the
"macdeployqt" command-line tool (comes with Qt) on the app bundle in order
to copy needed libraries into it.

On other Unix systems, you can install into /usr/local with:

  make install

To specify a different path, you should pass PREFIX to qmake prior to
installing:

  qmake PREFIX=/some/other/directory

To disable video support, use:

  qmake -config disable-video

To disable audio support, use:

  qmake -config "disable-audio disable-video"

(Note that you can't have video support without audio support.)

The recognized config options are:

  xmp            - Use libxmp instead of libopenmpt
  modplug        - Use libmodplug instead of libopenmpt
  adlmidi        - Enable OPL3 emulator (requires libADLMIDI)
  disable-audio  - Disable audio support
  disable-video  - Disable video support

The recognized installation directory options are:

  PREFIX   - Install prefix. Default is /usr/local.
  BINDIR   - Default is PREFIX/bin.
  DATADIR  - Default is PREFIX/share.
  DOCDIR   - Default is DATADIR/doc/hugor-version
